you say clap my name is Sean Clark I am
the lead starcraft 2 commentator for
yourself I've been building my sports
career for roughly 10 years I suppose
originally was a player professional
player slowly transitioned into a
self-employed commentator to finally
working it and one of the biggest sports
companies if not the biggest he sorts
company in the world my very first
experience was just playing online i
think because i like eSports is just
competitive nature against each other so
the first time I really got into eSports
was playing for online tournaments or
online legal ladder and that was the
first stepping stone into where I
eventually started to compete in two
tourneys national and international and
having been a professional player and
grown up in the scene his benefit my
commentate know what I I get to have the
insight of a professional player I
understand the way that real-time
strategy games work which is where I
have my expertise if I hadn't have been
a professional player I don't think I'd
be where I was now I never I don't think
I ever took the thought saying I want to
do this I was just always in it from the
very GetGo because i started at such a
young age I was a assigned professional
gamer at 16 17 i was playing competitive
it 14 there was never a day where I was
like I want to do this it was always I'm
already in it what's next going along I
don't know how I never thought to myself
okay I want to do this for a living for
my the rest of my life it's just always
been my life
and I realized I could start to make
money in eSports and kind of make money
on a regular basis when I started to
compete in tournaments that offered
prize money at the very beginning the
talking two thousand five or so most
toilets that I used to play back in
we're offering keyboards or mouse or
headsets because it was just the easy
way to to give out prizes come two
thousand six and seven there was money
on the line so as soon as there was a
regular basis in a regular turn of
events that offered prize money there's
the day that I said okay well if I
continue to win on a regular basis as
well then I can actually earn all the
money that's offered out there for I can
make money and throughout my career it's
I've always looked at different ways to
make money whether it be competing
commentating coaching and going to these
big events so there's always been a
steady income from a long time ago how
are you doing you hanging in there mate
I'm good I'm very good thanks looking
forward to this PvP that's coming up
average casting session can be a couple
of days work I guess it's scales from if
it was just a one-day tournament it
could be one day prior getting ready for
it if it's a big weekend tournament it
can be leading up to a week if it's a
World Finals it could be weeks on end
and the stuff that I usually do to
prepare for these type of told him it's
his understanding every single player
that's competing their understanding how
the torment / tournament works the
format just the scheduling and just
being in the zone ready to go there as
soon as I go on camera I know everything
inside out whether it be just the simple
tournament setting player strategies the
way the game works all this type of
stuff and if it's a big one it can take
a long time Huck doesn't quite get the
appreciation that he should get as is
actually a very good player and he plays
well he actually gets a lot of big wins
against a lot of big names and he loses
to even bigger names the typical day of
a nice sports commentator and I play a
lot of the game that i commentate on I
watch a lot of it and typically it's
it's 12-plus hours of the same thing
every single day revolving the same game
and it's playing it it's watching it
it's talking about it and anything to do
with it I'm usually always doing what I
what I love starcraft
there's a massive difference prior
playing professionally now than back
when I used to do it there's an
infrastructure setup there is a easy way
to make money usually teams there's a
lot more teams that offer salaries now
for players whether it be a couple of
hundred euros where we up to a thousand
years there's tournaments almost every
single day every weekend from small
sizes too big ones and you know within
starcraft where I work Blizzard have
implemented the World Championship
Series which is a roughly every three
months as a new season which you can
guarantee yourself money if you're good
enough to play in it but when I used to
play you mean back when I used to play I
suppose the only big time that happened
was the world cyber games which was once
a year everything leading up to that was
50 euros here this month there are 50
years here this month but at the end of
the year there was the big one which is
you know $15,000 first place and so that
was that always lead up to one big turn
of the end of the year compared to our
asst every week you can make money
relations
the one tip I would give to aspiring
commentators is get yourself out there
it's very easy nowadays twitch TV is a
very easy platform for you to jump on
and stream your own stuff look for
tournaments to cover there's a lot of
the big tournaments always looking for
community commentators and if you're
good enough you're going to get on there
and if you're good enough then on top of
that you're going to get recognized and
you're going to be able to continue to
get work could you have asked for a
better player here really in rain who's
on Form he's not playing at blizzcon
which means he isn't going to be
traveling practicing for that he's going
to be at home preparing and getting
ready for San Jose which is pretty much
the next one he plays in with no pro
league or anything around yeah brilliant
the biggest myth in eSports is that it's
easy there's no work involved you sit
there and play games and sometimes work
a couple of hours or two I'd say it's
not true
you